The Department of Computer Science and Engineering of University of Dhaka (CSEDU) under the Faculty of Engineering and Technology (FoET) fosters quality education and research endeavors in diverse fields of computing. The CSEDU offers a 4 years Bachelor of Science, 1.5 years Master of Science, 2 years M.Phil, and Ph.D degree programs in Computer Science and Engineering. We also offer a Professional Masters in Information and Cyber Security (PMICS) degree program of 1.5 years duration. The CSEDU has become the finest and strongest academic department in the region for education and research in computing fields. We are proud to be the home of consecutive champion teams for regional and national level competitive programming contests.

Our undergraduate degree program attracts the most meritorious students of the country, intakes only 60 students in a year, and produces graduates who have gone on to great success in industry and academia at home and abroad. The students are offered opportunities to engage in complex problem solving, conducting cutting-edge researches, experiential learning, and depth of study within the discipline, alongside dedicated faculty and a strong team of student-centered advisors and staff. The graduate degree programs, supported by various scholarships and administered by the Faculty of Engineering and Technology (FoET), allow students the opportunity to work with experienced faculty members to expand their knowledge in a variety of CSE areas including Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Image Intelligence, Networking, Crowdsourcing, Knowledge Engineering, etc.

We are also highly privileged to work with a large network of alumni, and a prospective advisory board that includes members from Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Meta along with other leading technical companies and high-profile universities. This enables us to maintain a relevant curriculum and strong network for our new graduates, leading to a job placement rate of over 95%. Our research profile is also strong and growing, with several million Takas of grants awarded in the last five years, and five faculty members with excellent academic and research profiles joined recently. Active research areas within the department include algorithms, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, computer networking, crowdsourcing applications, data science, distributed systems, graphics and visualization, internet of things, machine learning and pattern mining, etc. The research groups are regularly publishing top-notch journal articles and peer-reviewed ranked conference papers. Our faculty members are dedicated to teaching and providing an engaging, rigorous, outcome based and welcoming classroom environment.

Given that AI, ML, IoT, Cloud Computing, Big Data Analytics, Cybersecurity, and other Fifth Industrial Revolution (5IR) technologies are playing a major role in building smart city applications as well as a smart society at large, our presence remains strong in the community as we fulfill our mission of research-driven education, industrial and public outreach, and service to the profession. We invite you to browse our website at www.du.ac.bd/body/CSE where you will find detailed information on our academic programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels, research and teaching profiles of our faculty, and student societies. We are confident that you will find a topic that sparks your interest.