Welcome to CSEDU
It's my immense pleasure to welcome you all to the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at the University of Dhaka (also known as CSEDU). The CSEDU is a place where the brightest minds from home and abroad assemble to build their future careers at highly reputed organizations at home and abroad. The department has been inspiring the best and brightest for more than three decades in fostering the frontier technologies of Computer Science and Engineering.

Our curriculum is world standard blended with the theories of computer science, practical engineering design, analysis, and development of solutions to complex engineering problems. Starting from fundamental hardware, software, and network technologies, we cover Artificial Intelligence (AI), Cybersecurity, Cloud Computing, Machine Learning, Blockchain, Human-Computer Interaction and Internet of Things (IoT). We render special focus on competitive programming, innovative design principles, creation of new knowledge, inter-disciplinary education, and enhancing the soft skills of the students. We keep Monday afternoon free in the student timetable, enabling them to pursue their passion outside the classroom activities. You may join any of the hundreds of clubs of the University and feel the genuineness and camaraderie of the student members.

We nurture you to be future-ready, and tackle multifaceted issues of our society powered by emerging technologies to enhance human living quality. We consider all members of the community as catalysts of evolution and inspire them to break away from traditional learning and doing mentality to create new knowledge and instigate others to do the same. Our credibility and efficacy of the methods of education are reflected by the outstanding performances of our current students in national and international competitive events. Feathers of success have been augmented by our alumni who have been performing with excellence in their respective fields; in the top ranking universities as teachers and researchers and in the top companies all around the globe including Google, Microsoft, Meta, Amazon, Intel, etc. as software engineers and IT specialists. Our students are well-equipped to take the challenge to stand out as the leaders of tomorrow. We welcome intelligent and creative minds willing to take the challenges of 21st century workplaces and have strong enthusiasm to work in building a smart Bangladesh.